okay the playstation 5. so maybe you saw
that thumbnail and you thought wouldn't
it be cool if you get
custom playstation 5's like that like
that would look really neat right
you can do it this is a real playstation
5 that's been customized
to well a spider-man theme and i did
this really quickly right this was truly
done with very little effort and
if you spent some effort on this thing
you could create some crazy stuff and i
think over the next little bit people
are going to go
wild with these things the reason why
it's so easy to customize
two things number one these side panels
pop off really easily i can't showcase
it in this video i've been
embargoed not to kind of show the
disassembly but it's a tool-less
five-second operation but secondly that
white plastic shell holds paint
really well like really really well so
if you've been thinking of like
spray painting or doing anything you
want with these shells
it's awesome you can go crazy with it so
i just spray painted these red
got a blue sticker up front white spider
stickers on the side
and i was able to make a pretty decent
spider-man themed playstation 5. like
this isn't perfect this isn't even like
the official spider-man logo it's just
a white spider thing that i drew and cut
out but you can tell us with a pretty
casual
attempt at this it comes out pretty
decent i'm just putting this out there
for people that have been
interested in modding their playstation
it's very good for it now the reason why
i did this is because one of my favorite
playstation games of all time
was the spider-man game on playstation
4. i loved that game
and the flagship title for the
playstation 5 launch is
the sequel spider-man miles morales and
this game
is awesome it's very similar mechanics
to the spider-man and playstation 4
but it's just on another level the
graphics and the visual experience are
really something special and this is
coming from someone who's
pretty immersed in high-end pc builds
right i love that stuff but
it's a visual treat what they've done
with spider-man miles morales is like
it's pretty cool now the ray tracing
this game a quick note about it if
you're unfamiliar with what ray tracing
is
it's this rendering technique that gives
games an extra
layer of visual realism so the new
spider-man
uses it and it looks awesome so if you
have it enabled in 4k you're kept at 30
frames per second
if you disable it you get gameplay at 60
frames per second which is a lot
smoother but
the visual fidelity that you get with
ray tracing enabled
is really nice now in this scene you can
see spider-man just chilling on the side
of the building right and there's
reflections on the glass but they're
actually fake reflections like if you
pan around
you can just tell it's not an actual
reflection of
the environment they've loaded an
environment map
onto that building it's not a real-time
reflection of what's happening like the
billboards
aren't reflected properly and even
spider-man's reflection isn't
accurate and this is with ray tracing
off but
if you enable ray tracing stuff looks so
much better
the lighting the shadows all of it's
just a little bit more believable but
the reflections in particular
are significantly better it's a more
accurate reflection the billboards now
change
appropriately everything is mirrored the
way that it would be
in real life and it makes the whole game
look really nice
now last week i did a video on the
playstation 5 controller and
the takeaway if you haven't seen it was
that this controller is very advanced
it's got haptics it's got the adaptive
triggers
and in games like astros playground it's
unbelievable like you can literally feel
the materials of the ground as you walk
around it's done really well
dual sense is so much better than any
other kind of
rumble or like no one even comes close
like
hd rumble on the switch nothing like
this dual truck 4
is nothing like this the rumble on xbox
series x controllers
is nothing like this nothing comes close
this is truly
next-gen controller okay but
i have to say that the way that
spider-man implemented
the haptics and the adaptive triggers in
this game
it wasn't great like there were a couple
spots that were kind of special some of
the cutscenes were cool
but i don't think they took proper
advantage of the haptics or the adaptive
triggers
and it was one of the issues i talked
about right because plenty of people are
going to be playing
spider-man and miles morales that don't
have playstation 5s because it's going
to be available on playstation 4 as well
it's it's difficult for the developers
to commit
that you know development time to make a
really robust
haptic system in the game it's just a
shame
um but this is one of the things i was
talking about if you have
a really well done haptic kind of
component to a game it's awesome like an
astros playground but
if you don't then it becomes this
ancillary
like like forgettable experience which
is
what i felt like the haptics were like
in miles morales so i think for a lot of
people
if you turned it off like if you just
turned off the rumbles and stuff in
spider-man miles morales
i don't think it would change the game
very much but i await those games where
they really take advantage of the
controller because this has
so much potential if it's done a certain
way now in terms of battery life on the
controller so
i plugged this up to several games and
just let them run
in spider-man with the haptics on i got
like five and a half hours
uh not a ton but that's not a super
haptically demanding game like it
vibrates a little bit but it doesn't go
crazy
in astros playground if i stand this
thing on a very rumbly part of level i
only got a little bit more than four
hours of battery life so
depending on the type of game you're
playing and whether or not you have
haptics enabled
i'd estimate between four to maybe seven
and a half hours of battery life
so it's got a bigger battery than the
dualshock 4 controllers but there's just
so much more happening inside this
controller this time around
so not a noticeably longer battery life
per se
now one thing i noticed there's no
screws on this thing
and if you ever get to a point where you
have to replace the battery
or if you want to mod it like if you
want to put you know scuff controller
stuff going on here
it's a lot harder this time around the
thumb sticks are
unchanged they feel exactly the way that
the dualshock 4 controllers felt
the d-pad i don't love this d-pad i
don't feel like it's
that different from the dualshock 4
controllers but i've always found the
sony d-pads
to be hard to use like if i ever play
fighting games i prefer a stick but if i
have to use a controller
i much prefer the xbox d-pad like the
tactile response there with the nice
clicks
is just better to me but it's a very
personal preference
so i tried a bunch of other older titles
like street fighter 5 plays really well
obviously
but every game i wanted to play was
available as well on the playstation 5.
sony says like
99 of playstation 4 games are gonna be
compatible
i think it's just mostly vr games that
won't make the cut and i finally tried
apex
on a console like i've always played on
pc and i've never tried that
apex console experience and it looks
really good on the playstation 5. it's a
very visually enjoyable experience
now one of the things i didn't love
about the playstation 4 was
fan noise it was just weirdly loud like
it didn't make sense to me that
something that was
so small and so elegant looking was also
so
loud and it just got worse over the
years right as dust built up in there
it was just stupidly loud this system
is so quiet even on full load and
because it exhausts at the back like if
you have it oriented in a normal
position
it's just a very quiet and pleasant
sound signature like the xbox series x
blows up the top
not that it's loud or anything they're
both extremely quiet but
because this exhaust at the back it just
has a more pleasant
kind of audio signature when you're
around this thing
it does run a little warm but i don't
think it's an issue i do think it's
cooled
very well now the system ui is very
different this time around right
it feels more intuitive to me but
there's certain elements that i can't
show yet because they're not
final software now there is no quick
resume this was something that xbox
series x has
and just allows you to swap between
games instantly like you could have
game a and then game b running at the
same time and you can switch between
them it's
a very convenient thing it sounds really
cool on paper
when i was reviewing this thing and i
was switching between games i was like i
really wish i had that feature on the
playstation 5.
i don't know if it's something they can
implement in the future like it doesn't
seem
impossible i feel like the technology is
available it has a good amount of ram
and good storage space it's just
i don't know if they'll do it but that
being said i don't know how
useful that really is for my type of
gameplay right
it depends on the person some people
really love that stuff but
if i'm not reviewing games i'm just
playing normally i tend to just stick
with one
maybe two games for a night but yeah no
quick resume
the storage is super fast it's got quick
boot times quick
game loading times it's really nice the
system comes with 825 gigs of storage
but you only get about 670 that's usable
the rest of it is used up by the system
and that can fill up quite quickly it
obviously depends on the games you're
downloading but
realistically when it comes to like aaa
titles
eight maybe ten games of like high-end
fully decked out titles
the good thing is that upgrading the
storage is quite easy you can just plug
up an external usb
if you want like i connected an external
ssd worked fine and you can pop it open
and insert
an nvme again i can't showcase it like
that would be disassembling it
but it's one screw it's like tool-less
until you get to that part you just pop
open the thing that's one screw
so if you want to do it it's a
relatively easy
and painless process so my overall
thoughts on the playstation 5.
it's an awesome system like it feels
truly next-gen
the controller the overall system just
feels on point
if you've pre-ordered it or you plan on
picking it up over the holiday season i
really think you're gonna enjoy it okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time